## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76168

G/sa

AD3d

Argued - December 9, 2024

CHERYL E. CHAMBERS, J.P. WILLIAM G. FORD JANICE A. TAYLOR LAURENCE L. LOVE, JJ.

2022-00636

DECISION &amp; ORDER

In the Matter of Shenyu Z. (Anonymous), appellant.

(Docket No. D-3622-21)

Barry J. Fisher, Williston Park, NY, for appellant.

Thomas A. Adams, County Attorney, Mineola, NY (Robert F. Van der Waag and Ian Bergström of counsel), for respondent.

In a juvenile delinquency proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 3, Shenyu Z. appeals from an order of disposition of the Family Court, Nassau County (Ellen R. Greenberg, J.), dated January 14, 2022.  The order of disposition, upon an order of fact-finding of the same court dated October 22, 2021, finding that Shenyu Z. committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of criminal sexual act in the third degree, sexual misconduct, and sexual abuse in the third degree, adjudicated him a juvenile delinquent and placed him on probation for a period of 12 months.

ORDERED that the appeal from so much of the order of disposition as placed Shenyu Z. on probation for a period of 12 months is dismissed as academic, without costs or disbursements, as the period of probation has expired; and it is further,

ORDERED that the order of disposition is affirmed insofar as reviewed, without costs or disbursements.

In this juvenile delinquency proceeding, the Family Court found, after a fact-finding hearing, that the appellant committed acts which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of criminal sexual act in the third degree, sexual misconduct, and sexual abuse in the third

degree, adjudicated him a juvenile delinquent, and placed him on probation for a period of 12 months.

The appeal from so much of the order of disposition as placed the appellant on probation for a period of 12 months must be dismissed as academic, as the period of probation has expired ( see Matter of Tyzay P.-B. , 229 AD3d 632, 632).  However, the appeal from so much of the order  of  disposition  as  adjudicated  the  appellant  a  juvenile  delinquent  has  not  been  rendered academic, as there may be collateral consequences resulting from the adjudication of delinquency ( see Matter of Jean Daniel F. , 200 AD3d 996, 997).

Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the presentment agency ( see Matter of David H. , 69 NY2d 792; Matter of Edwin B. , 223 AD3d 903), we find that it was legally sufficient  to  establish  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt  that  the  appellant  committed  acts  which,  if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crimes of criminal sexual act in the third degree (Penal Law former § 130.40[3]), sexual misconduct ( id. § 130.20[2]), and sexual abuse in the third degree ( id. § 130.55).

Moreover, in fulfilling our responsibility to conduct an independent review of the weight of the evidence, we nevertheless accord great deference to the factfinder's opportunity to view the witnesses, hear the testimony, and observe demeanor ( see Matter of Ernest S.C. , 196 AD3d 565).    Upon  reviewing  the  record  here,  we  are  satisfied  that  the  Family  Court's  fact-finding determination that  the  appellant  committed  acts  which,  if  committed  by  an  adult,  would  have constituted the crimes of crimes of criminal sexual act in the third degree, sexual misconduct, and sexual  abuse  in  the  third  degree  was  not  against  the  weight  of  the  evidence.    Contrary  to  the appellant's contention, the complainant clearly testified that she told the appellant on multiple occasions that she did not want to engage in the complained-of sexual acts with the appellant ( see Penal Law § 130.05[2][c], [d]).

The appellant's remaining contentions are either academic or without merit ( see Matter of Maximo M. , 184 AD3d 780, 782; Matter of Justin D. , 114 AD3d 941, 943).

CHAMBERS, J.P., FORD, TAYLOR and LOVE, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->