## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76205

A/sa

AD3d

Submitted - October 28, 2024

ROBERT J. MILLER, J.P. WILLIAM G. FORD LAURENCE L. LOVE DONNA-MARIE E. GOLIA, JJ.

2023-07137

DECISION &amp; ORDER

In the Matter of Moquease M. (Anonymous), appellant.

(Docket No. D-13722-22)

Diana Kelly, Jamaica, NY, for appellant.

Muriel Goode-Trufant, Corporation Counsel, New York, NY (Devin Slack and Philip W. Wong of counsel), for respondent.

In  a  juvenile  delinquency  proceeding  pursuant  to  Family  Court  Act  article  3, Moquease M. appeals from an order of disposition of the Family Court, Queens County (Dean T. Kusakabe, J.), dated June 7, 2023.  The order of disposition, insofar as appealed from, upon an order of fact-finding of the same court dated March 1, 2023, made upon the admission of Moquease M., finding that he committed an act which, if committed by an adult, would have constituted the crime of criminal possession of a weapon on school grounds, after a dispositional hearing, and upon adjudicating him a juvenile delinquent, placed him in the custody of the Commissioner of Social Services of the City of New York for placement in a limited secure facility for a period of up to 18 months with no credit for time served.

ORDERED that the appeal is dismissed as academic, without costs or disbursements.

The only issues raised by the appellant concern his placement in the custody of the Commissioner of Social Services of the City of New York for placement in a limited secure facility for a period of up to 18 months with no credit for time served.  Since the placement has expired, the appeal must be dismissed as academic ( see Matter of Mark E.D. , 228 AD3d 935; Matter of Norris

R. , 145 AD3d 728).

MILLER, J.P., FORD, LOVE and GOLIA, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->