## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76263 Q/htr

AD3d

Submitted - December 17, 2024

CHERYL E. CHAMBERS, J.P. LINDA CHRISTOPHER LAURENCE L. LOVE PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2023-01639

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Shanilka Smith, appellant.

(Ind. No. 71948/21)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Robert C. Langdon of counsel), for appellant.

Eric  Gonzalez,  District  Attorney,  Brooklyn,  NY  (Leonard  Joblove  and  Michael Bierce of counsel; Ali Fazal on the brief), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Raymond L. Rodriguez, J.), rendered September 8, 2022, convicting her of attempted criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon her plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The record demonstrates that the defendant knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waived her right to appeal ( see People v Thomas , 34 NY3d 545; People v Lopez , 6 NY3d 248).  The defendant's valid waiver of her right to appeal precludes appellate review of her contention that her conviction pursuant to Penal Law ยง 265.03(3) is unconstitutional under New York State Rifle &amp; Pistol Assn., Inc. v Bruen (597 US 1) ( see People v Johnson , 225 AD3d 453, 453-455; People v Miller , 166 AD3d 812, 813; People v Fisher , 121 AD3d 1013, 1013).  The defendant's valid waiver of her right to appeal also precludes appellate review of her contention that the sentence imposed was excessive ( see People v Lopez , 6 NY3d at 255; People v Lawrence , 184 AD3d 587, 587).

In  light  of  our  determination,  we  need  not  reach  the  defendant's  remaining

contentions.

CHAMBERS, J.P., CHRISTOPHER, LOVE and HOM, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->