## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76495

C/htr

AD3d

Submitted - January 21, 2025

HECTOR D. LASALLE, P.J. CHERYL E. CHAMBERS JANICE A. TAYLOR CARL J. LANDICINO, JJ.

2021-02929

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Carlos Forero, appellant.

(Ind. No. 1557/19)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Robert C. Langdon of counsel), for appellant.

Melinda Katz, District Attorney, Kew Gardens, NY (Johnnette Traill and Ellen C. Abbot of counsel; Damian Jhagroo on the brief), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (John F. Zoll, J.), rendered March 16, 2020, convicting him of attempted robbery in the first degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

## ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

'Upon  conviction  of  an  eligible  youth,  the  court  must  order  a  pre-sentence investigation of the defendant.  After receipt of a written report of the investigation and at the time of pronouncing sentence the court must determine whether or not the eligible youth is a youthful offender' (CPL 720.20[1]).  ''In making such a determination, factors to be considered by the court include the gravity of the crime and manner in which it was committed, mitigating circumstances, defendant's prior criminal record, prior acts of violence, recommendations in the presentence reports, defendant's reputation, the level of cooperation with authorities, defendant's attitude toward society and respect for the law, and the prospects for rehabilitation and hope for a future constructive life'' ( People v Battle , 209 AD3d 758, 759, quoting People v Sutton , 184 AD3d 236, 246).  Here, despite the defendant's lack of a criminal record and other mitigating factors, the Supreme Court did not improvidently exercise its discretion in declining to grant the defendant youthful offender status in light of the nature and circumstances of his offense, which included the stabbing of a victim on the

street before stealing money and other valuables ( see id. ; People v Jearel , 175 AD3d 565, 567).

The defendant contends that the mandatory surcharge and fees that were levied at sentencing ( see Penal Law ยง 60.35[1][a]) should be waived pursuant to CPL 420.35(2-a).  CPL 420.35(2-a) authorizes a court, upon certain enumerated grounds ( see id. ยง 420.35[2-a][a]-[c]), to waive the otherwise 'mandatory' surcharge and fees imposed by statute (Penal Law ยง 60.35[1][a]; see generally People v Jones , 26 NY3d 730, 733-737), where an individual was 'under the age of twenty-one  at  the  time  the  offense  was  committed'  (CPL  420.35[2-a]).    Here,  although  it  is undisputed that the defendant was 17 years old at the time the underlying offense was committed, the  record  does  not  also  demonstrate  that  a  waiver  of  the  mandatory  surcharge  and  fees  was warranted under any of the grounds enumerated in the statute ( see id. ยง 420.35[2-a][a]-[c]; People v Attah ,  203 AD3d 1063, 1064).  Under the circumstances, and in the absence of the People's consent, we decline to waive the surcharge and fees levied at sentencing in the interest of justice ( see People v Acevedo , 210 AD3d 1106, 1107; People v Attah , 203 AD3d at 1064).

LASALLE, P.J., CHAMBERS, TAYLOR and LANDICINO, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->