## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76457

O/htr

AD3d

Argued - January 23, 2025

LARA J. GENOVESI, J.P. VALERIE BRATHWAITE NELSON LOURDES M. VENTURA JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2022-09670

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Tyheem Williams, appellant.

(Ind. No. 71458/21)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Rebekah J. Pazmiño of counsel), for appellant.

Eric Gonzalez, District Attorney, Brooklyn, NY (Leonard Joblove, Julian Joiris, and Isaac Rounseville of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Raymond L. Rodriguez, J.), rendered November 7, 2022, convicting him of attempted criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

Contrary to the defendant's contention, the record demonstrates that he knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waived his right to appeal ( see People v Thomas , 34 NY3d 545, 558564; People  v  Lopez ,  6  NY3d  248,  255-257; People  v  Williams ,  180  AD3d  814,  814).    The defendant's valid waiver of his right to appeal precludes appellate review of his challenge to the Supreme court's denial of his motion to suppress physical evidence ( see People v Hightower-Castro , 219 AD3d 504, 505; People v Camacho , 179 AD3d 831, 831-832; People v Kornegay , 60 AD3d 696, 696).

GENOVESI, J.P., BRATHWAITE NELSON, VENTURA and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph Clerk of the Court

<!-- image -->