## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76445 O/htr

AD3d

Argued - January 13, 2025

CHERYL E. CHAMBERS, J.P. WILLIAM G. FORD JANICE A. TAYLOR JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2023-08710 2023-08711

DECISION &amp; ORDER

In the Matter of Lissete Nunez, appellant-respondent, v Brian A. Spellen, respondent-appellant.

(Docket No. O-23467-19)

Schulte  Roth  &amp;  Zabel  LLP,  New  York,  NY  (Taleah  E.  Jennings,  Frances  D. Rodriguez, and Priyadarshini Das of counsel), for appellant-respondent.

Heath J. Goldstein, Jamaica, NY, for respondent-appellant.

Angella S. Hull, Jamaica, NY, attorney for the children.

In a family offense proceeding pursuant to Family Court Act article 8, Lissete Nunez appeals, and Brian A. Spellen cross-appeals, from (1) an order of fact-finding and disposition of the Family Court, Queens County (Mildred T. Negron, J.), dated August 3, 2023, and (2) an order of protection of the same court, also dated August 3, 2023.  The order of fact-finding and disposition, insofar  as  appealed  from,  after  a  hearing,  did  not  find  that  aggravating  circumstances  existed permitting a final order of protection to be issued for a period of five years and directed Brian A. Spellen to comply with the terms of an order of protection only for a period not to exceed two years. The order of fact-finding and disposition, insofar as cross-appealed from, after a hearing, found that Brian A. Spellen committed the family offenses of disorderly conduct, harassment in the second degree, assault in the third degree, attempted assault in the third degree, criminal obstruction of breathing or blood circulation, menacing in the second degree, menacing in the third degree, and strangulation in the second degree and directed Brian A. Spellen to comply with the terms of an order of protection for a period not to exceed two years.  The order of protection, insofar as appealed from, directed Brian A. Spellen to stay away from Lissete Nunez and the parties' children for a period of only two years, until and including August 3, 2025.  The order of protection, insofar as

cross-appealed from, directed Brian A. Spellen to stay away from Lissete Nunez and the parties' children for a period of two years, until and including August 3, 2025.

ORDERED that the order of fact-finding and disposition is modified, on the facts, (1)  by  deleting  the  words  'for  a  period  not  in  excess  of  two  years'  from  the  second  decretal paragraph, and substituting therefor the words 'for a period not in excess of five years,' and (2) by adding thereto a decretal paragraph finding that aggravating circumstances exist; as so modified, the order of fact-finding and disposition is affirmed insofar as cross-appealed from, without costs or disbursements; and it is further,

ORDERED that the order of protection is modified, on the facts and in the exercise of discretion, by deleting the provision thereof directing that the order of protection shall remain in effect until and including August 3, 2025, and substituting therefor a provision directing that the order of protection shall remain in effect until and including August 3, 2028; as so modified, the order of protection is affirmed insofar as cross-appealed from, without costs or disbursements.

The parties were never married, but resided together between 2014 and 2019, and have three children together, born in 2015, 2018, and 2019.  Lissete Nunez commenced this family offense proceeding in November 2019, alleging, inter alia, incidents of violence perpetrated by Brian A. Spellen against her between 2015 and 2019.  Nunez sought a five-year order of protection.  After a  fact-finding  hearing,  the  Family  Court  found  that  Spellen  committed  the  family  offenses  of disorderly conduct, harassment in the second degree, assault in the third degree, attempted assault in the third degree, criminal obstruction of breathing or blood circulation, menacing in the second degree, menacing in the third degree, and strangulation in the second degree and directed Spellen to comply with the terms of an order of protection for a period not to exceed two years.  The court declined to make a finding that aggravating circumstances existed such that an order of protection could be issued for a period of five years.  The court issued an order of protection, directing Spellen to  stay  away  from  the  petitioner  and  the  parties'  children  for  a  period  of  two  years,  until  and including August 3, 2025.  Nunez appeals, and Spellen cross-appeals, from the order of fact-finding and disposition and the order of protection.

In a family offense proceeding, the petitioner has the burden of establishing the family offense by a fair preponderance of the evidence ( see Matter of Cassie v Cassie , 109 AD3d 337, 340). The determination of whether a family offense was committed is a factual issue to be resolved by the Family Court, and that court's determination regarding the credibility of the witnesses is entitled to  great  weight  on  appeal  ( see Matter  of  Diaz  v  Rodriguez ,  164  AD3d  1340,  1340).    'The determination of whether a family offense was committed is a factual issue to be resolved by the hearing court' ( Matter of Lederman v Lederman , 208 AD3d 483, 484 [internal quotation marks omitted]).  ''The Family Court's determination as to the credibility of witnesses is entitled to great weight and, if supported by the record, will not be disturbed on appeal'' ( id. , quoting Matter of Mansour v Mahgoub , 202 AD3d 961, 962).  Where, as here, ''the court was presented with sharply conflicting accounts by the parties regarding the subject events, and chose to credit the testimony of one party over that of the other, its determination will not be disturbed unless clearly unsupported by the record'' ( Matter of Mattis v Walcott-Graham , 231 AD3d 1156, 1156, quoting Matter of Mohammed v Mohammed , 174 AD3d 615, 615-616; see Matter of Wiley v Wiley , 231 AD3d 841).

Here, contrary to Spellen's contention, the Family Court's finding that he committed the family offenses was based upon its credibility assessments and is supported by the record ( see Matter of Adeshina v Adeshina , 228 AD3d 755, 756; Matter of Royal v Royal , 187 AD3d 1195, 1195; Matter of Lopez de Salmon v Salmon , 150 AD3d 1121, 1122).  Accordingly, there is no basis to disturb those portions of the order of fact-finding and disposition that made those findings and directed  Spellen  to  comply  with  the  terms  of  the  order  of  protection  ( see Matter  of  Mattis  v Walcott-Graham , 231 AD3d 1156; Matter of Breier v Breier , 202 AD3d 1083, 1084).

Additionally, contrary to Spellen's contention, the Family Court properly included the children as protected persons in the order of protection, as the evidence demonstrated that doing so was reasonably necessary to provide meaningful protection to Nunez and to eradicate the root of the family disturbance ( see Family Ct Act § 842; Matter of Fortunato v Dappio ,  223 AD3d 800, 801; Matter of Lynch v Jimenez , 230 AD3d 496, 498; Matter of Cook v Berehowsky , 211 AD3d 727, 728; Matter of Lengiewicz v Lengiewicz , 167 AD3d 608, 609).

The  Family  Court,  however,  should  have  found  that  aggravating  circumstances existed.    The  evidence  at  the  fact-finding  hearing  demonstrated  that  Nunez  sustained  physical injuries as a result of the family offenses committed by Spellen against her and that the children were present during the commission of several of the family offenses ( see Family Ct Act §§ 827[a][vii]; 842; Matter of Dandu v Jatamoni , 228 AD3d 861, 862; Goikhman v Biton , 183 AD3d 704, 705-706; Matter of Liu v Yip , 127 AD3d 1196, 1197; Matter of Margary v Martinez , 118 AD3d 1004, 1006).

Spellen's remaining contention is without merit.

CHAMBERS, J.P., FORD, TAYLOR and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph

Clerk of the Court