## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76435 G/htr

AD3d

Submitted - January 22, 2025

ANGELA G. IANNACCI, J.P. LARA J. GENOVESI DEBORAH A. DOWLING CARL J. LANDICINO PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2023-01633

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Andre Velazquez, appellant.

(Ind. No. 72580/21)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Elijah Giuliano of counsel), for appellant.

Eric  Gonzalez,  District  Attorney,  Brooklyn,  NY  (Solomon  Neubort  of  counsel; Jordan Najah on the memorandum), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant, as limited by his motion, from a sentence of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Heidi Cesare, J.), imposed September 6, 2022, upon his plea of guilty, on the ground that the sentence was excessive.

## ORDERED that the sentence is affirmed.

Under the totality of the circumstances, the record demonstrates that the defendant knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waived his right to appeal.  Although it would have been better practice for the Supreme Court to discuss with the defendant the waiver of his appellate rights before obtaining an admission of guilt ( see People v Downing , \_\_\_\_\_ AD3d \_\_\_\_\_, 2024 NY Slip Op 06581 [2d Dept]; People v Powell , \_\_\_\_\_ AD3d \_\_\_\_\_, 2024 NY Slip Op 06363 [2d Dept]), the record reflects that the defendant was aware of the People's demand for an appeal waiver before agreeing to plead guilty, as, among other things, the defendant acknowledged that he had discussed the  appeal  waiver  with  his  attorney.    The  record  further  reflects  that  the  defendant  had  prior experience with the criminal justice system and had pleaded guilty to a prior offense.  Contrary to the defendant's contentions, under the circumstances presented, the court's delay in explaining the appeal waiver until after the defendant's factual allocution of the crime did not render the appeal

waiver invalid ( see People v Bryant , 28 NY3d 1094, 1096; People v Downing , \_\_\_\_\_ AD3d \_\_\_\_\_, 2024 NY Slip Op 06581).  The defendant's valid waiver of his right to appeal precludes appellate review of his contention that the sentence imposed was excessive ( see People v Lopez , 6 NY3d 248, 253; People v Florio , 179 AD3d 834, 835).

IANNACCI, J.P., GENOVESI, DOWLING, LANDICINO and HOM, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->