## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76522

C/sa

AD3d

Submitted - January 13, 2025

CHERYL E. CHAMBERS, J.P. WILLIAM G. FORD JANICE A. TAYLOR JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2018-11825

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Jean Carlo Gonzales, appellant.

(S.C.I. No. 10162/17)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Anders Nelson of counsel), for appellant.

Melinda Katz, District Attorney, Kew Gardens, NY (Johnnette Traill, Danielle M. O'Boyle, and Michael Tadros of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Suzanne  J.  Melendez,  J.),  rendered  October  31,  2017,  convicting  him  of  criminal  sale  of  a controlled substance in the third degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is modified, on the law and as a matter of discretion in  the  interest  of  justice,  by  vacating  the  imposition  of  a  mandatory  surcharge  and  fees;  as  so modified, the judgment is affirmed.

'Criminal Procedure Law ยง 420.35(2-a) permits the waiver of surcharges and fees for individuals, like the defendant, who were less than 21 years old at the time of the subject crime' ( People v Cabrera , 222 AD3d 878, 879).  'This provision applies retroactively to cases, such as this one, that were pending on direct appeal on the effective date of the legislation' ( People v Torres ,  225 AD3d 632, 632; see People v Dyshawn B. , 196 AD3d 638, 641).

Pursuant to the exercise of our interest of justice jurisdiction, and as consented to by the People, we modify the judgment by vacating the mandatory surcharge and fees imposed upon

the defendant at sentencing ( see CPL 420.35[2-a][c]; People v Dillon H. , 229 AD3d 722, 723).

CHAMBERS, J.P., FORD, TAYLOR and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->