## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76538

C/htr

AD3d

Submitted - December 10, 2024

MARK C. DILLON, J.P. ROBERT J. MILLER LILLIAN WAN PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2019-10105

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Jose H. (Anonymous), appellant.

(Ind. No. 6754/17)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Anders Nelson of counsel), for appellant.

Eric  Gonzalez,  District  Attorney,  Brooklyn,  NY  (Leonard  Joblove  and  Amy Appelbaum of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Dineen Riviezzo, J.), rendered July 8, 2019, adjudicating him a youthful offender, upon his plea of guilty to robbery in the third degree, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is modified, on the law and as a matter of discretion in  the  interest  of  justice,  by  vacating  the  imposition  of  a  mandatory  surcharge  and  fee;  as  so modified, the judgment is affirmed.

'Criminal Procedure Law ยง 420.35(2-a) permits the waiver of surcharges and fees for individuals, like the defendant, who were less than 21 years old at the time of the subject crime' ( People v Dillon H. ,  229 AD3d 722, 723 [internal quotation marks omitted]).  'This provision applies retroactively to cases, such as this one, that were pending on direct appeal on the effective date of the legislation' ( People v Torres , 225 AD3d 632, 632; see People v Dyshawn B. , 196 AD3d 638, 641).

Pursuant to the exercise of our interest of justice jurisdiction, and as consented to by

the People, we modify the judgment by vacating the mandatory surcharge and fee imposed upon the defendant at sentencing ( see CPL 420.35[2-a][c]; People v Dillon H. , 229 AD3d at 723).

<!-- image -->

Darrell M. Joseph Clerk of the Court