## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76627 C/htr

AD3d

Submitted - February 7, 2025

MARK C. DILLON, J.P. PAUL WOOTEN HELEN VOUTSINAS LOURDES M. VENTURA, JJ.

2022-06845

The People, etc., respondent, v Uzziel Phillips, appellant.

(Ind. No. 70844/21)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Russ Altman-Merino of counsel), for appellant.

Eric Gonzalez, District Attorney, Brooklyn, NY (Leonard Joblove and Ann Bordley of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Claudia Daniels-DePeyster, J.), rendered August 11, 2022, convicting him of criminal possession of a firearm, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

## ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The defendant's contention that Penal Law §§ 265.01-b(1), 265.01(1), and 265.03(3) are unconstitutional in light of the decision of the United States Supreme Court in New York State Rifle  &amp;  Pistol  Assn.,  Inc.  v  Bruen (597  US  1),  and  that  the  indictment  was  thus  defective,  is unpreserved for appellate review, since he failed to raise  a  constitutional  challenge  before the Supreme Court ( see People v Cabrera , 41 NY3d 35, 42, 50-51; People v Sirleaf , 231 AD3d 969). In any event, the defendant's contention is without merit.  The Bruen decision had no impact on the constitutionality of New York State's criminal possession of a weapon statutes ( see People v Wilson , 222 AD3d 1006, 1009; People v Joyce ,  219 AD3d 627, 627-628; People v Manners ,  217 AD3d 683).

The sentence imposed was not excessive ( see People v Suitte , 90 AD2d 80).

The defendant's remaining contentions are unpreserved for appellate review and, in

DECISION &amp; ORDER

any event, without merit.

DILLON, J.P., WOOTEN, VOUTSINAS and VENTURA, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->