## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76610

C/sa

AD3d

Submitted - February 6, 2025

BETSY BARROS, J.P. LINDA CHRISTOPHER BARRY E. WARHIT JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2022-02191

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Vanessa Rubio, appellant.

(Ind. No. 446/20)

Twyla Carter, New York, NY (Naila S. Siddiqui of counsel), for appellant.

Melinda Katz, District Attorney, Kew Gardens, NY (Johnnette Traill, William H. Branigan, and Lucy E. Pannes of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Toni M. Cimino, J.), rendered February 15, 2022, convicting her of criminal possession of a weapon in the fourth degree, upon her plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is modified, on the law and as a matter of discretion in  the  interest  of  justice,  by  vacating  the  imposition  of  a  mandatory  surcharge  and  fees;  as  so modified, the judgment is affirmed.

'Criminal Procedure Law ยง 420.35(2-a) permits the waiver of surcharges and fees for individuals, like the defendant, who were less than 21 years old at the time of the subject crime' ( People  v  Cabrera ,  222  AD3d  878,  879).    Pursuant  to  the  exercise  of  our  interest  of  justice jurisdiction, and as consented to by the People, we modify the judgment by vacating the mandatory surcharge and fees imposed upon the defendant at sentencing ( see CPL 420.35[2-a][c]; People v Dillon H. , 229 AD3d 722, 723).

BARROS, J.P., CHRISTOPHER, WARHIT and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph Clerk of the Court