## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76646 C/htr

AD3d

Submitted - February 10, 2025

FRANCESCA E. CONNOLLY, J.P. VALERIE BRATHWAITE NELSON CARL J. LANDICINO DONNA-MARIE E. GOLIA, JJ.

2020-01038

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Alex Tlatelpo, appellant.

(S.C.I. No. 2295/19)

Twyla Carter, New York, NY (Harold V. Ferguson, Jr., of counsel), for appellant.

Melinda Katz, District Attorney, Kew Gardens, NY (Johnnette Traill and Danielle S. Fenn of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Joanne B. Watters, J., at plea; Bruna L. DiBiase, J., at sentence), rendered December 17, 2019, convicting him of attempted robbery in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is modified, on the law and as a matter of discretion in  the  interest  of  justice,  by  vacating  the  imposition  of  a  mandatory  surcharge  and  fees;  as  so modified, the judgment is affirmed.

''Criminal Procedure Law ยง 420.35(2-a) permits the waiver of surcharges and fees for individuals, like the defendant, who were less than 21 years old at the time of the subject crime'' ( People v Dillon H. , 229 AD3d 722, 723, quoting People v Cabrera ,  222 AD3d 878, 879; see People v Odesanya ,  225 AD3d 631, 631-632).  Pursuant to the exercise of our interest of justice jurisdiction, and as consented to by the People, we modify the judgment by vacating the mandatory surcharge and fees imposed upon the defendant at sentencing ( see CPL 420.35[2-a][c]; People v Thompson , 225 AD3d 713, 714; People v Torres , 225 AD3d 632, 632).

CONNOLLY, J.P., BRATHWAITE NELSON, LANDICINO and GOLIA, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph Clerk of the Court

<!-- image -->