## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76682

C/sa

AD3d

Submitted - February 13, 2025

ANGELA G. IANNACCI, J.P. WILLIAM G. FORD JANICE A. TAYLOR JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2023-05305

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Edson Mejia, appellant.

(S.C.I. No. 70586/22)

Judah Maltz, Kew Gardens, NY, for appellant.

Anne T. Donnelly, District Attorney, Mineola, NY (Tammy J. Smiley of counsel; Matthew C. Frankel on the brief), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County (Francis  Ricigliano,  J.),  rendered  May  17,  2022,  convicting  him  of  criminal  possession  of  a controlled substance in the fifth degree, criminal possession of a firearm, and reckless endangerment in the first degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.  Assigned counsel has submitted a brief in accordance with Anders v California (386 US 738), in which he moves for leave to withdraw as counsel for the appellant.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

We are satisfied with the sufficiency of the brief filed by the defendant's assigned counsel pursuant to Anders v California (386 US 738), and, upon an independent review of the record,  we  conclude  that  there  are  no  nonfrivolous  issues  which  could  be  raised  on  appeal. Counsel's application for leave to withdraw as counsel is, therefore, granted ( see id. ; People v Murray , 169 AD3d 227; Matter of Giovanni S. [Jasmin A.] , 89 AD3d 252).

IANNACCI, J.P., FORD, TAYLOR and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->

PEOPLE v MEJIA, EDSON