## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76650

C/htr

AD3d

Submitted - February 10, 2025

FRANCESCA E. CONNOLLY, J.P. VALERIE BRATHWAITE NELSON CARL J. LANDICINO DONNA-MARIE E. GOLIA, JJ.

2018-01846

DECISION &amp; ORDER

2018-01847

2018-01848

2018-01849

2018-02085

2018-02086

2018-02087

The People, etc., respondent, v Michael J. Sanfilippo, appellant.

(Ind. No. 126/17; S.C.I. Nos. 291/17, 292/17, 293/17, 294/17, 295/17, 296/17)

Margaret M. Walker, Poughkeepsie, NY (Steven Levine of counsel), for appellant.

Anthony P. Parisi, District Attorney, Poughkeepsie, NY (Anna K. Diehn of counsel), for respondent.

Appeals by the defendant from seven judgments of the County Court, Dutchess County (Edward T. McLoughlin, J.), all rendered January 19, 2018, convicting him of robbery in the first degree (three counts) under Indictment No. 126/17, burglary in the third degree under Superior Court Information No. 291/17, criminal possession of stolen property in the third degree under Superior  Court  Information  No.  292/17,  burglary  in  the  third  degree  under  Superior  Court Information No. 293/17, grand larceny in the third degree under Superior Court Information No. 294/17, burglary in the third degree under Superior Court Information No. 295/17, and burglary in the third degree under Superior Court Information No. 296/17, upon his pleas of guilty, and imposing sentences.

ORDERED that the judgments are affirmed.

The defendant's contention that his pleas of guilty were not entered voluntarily because the County Court did not accurately advise him of his maximum potential sentencing exposure is unpreserved for appellate review ( see CPL 470.05[2]; People v Davis , 186 AD3d 852; People v Leasure , 177 AD3d 770, 772).  In any event, this contention is without merit.  The court accurately  advised  the  defendant  of  his  maximum  sentencing  exposure  were  he  to  have  been convicted after trial on every count, and if the court were to have imposed consecutive sentences. Penal Law ยง 70.30(1) governs the calculation of multiple determinate and indeterminate sentences. 'The statute does not affect the authority of the courts to impose multiple sentences or govern the lengths of individual sentences but instead it provides direction to the correctional authorities as to how to  compute  the  time  which  must  be  served  under  the  sentences'  ( People  ex  rel.  Ryan  v Cheverko , 22 NY3d 132, 136 [internal quotation marks omitted]).  That the court did not advise the defendant  as  to  how  correctional  authorities  would  compute  multiple  maximum  consecutive sentences did not render the defendant's pleas involuntary ( see People v Leasure , 177 AD3d at 772; People v DePerno , 148 AD3d 1463, 1464-1465).

CONNOLLY, J.P., BRATHWAITE NELSON, LANDICINO and GOLIA, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->