## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76645 C/htr

<!-- image -->

AD3d

Submitted - February 10, 2025

FRANCESCA E. CONNOLLY, J.P. VALERIE BRATHWAITE NELSON CARL J. LANDICINO DONNA-MARIE E. GOLIA, JJ.

2022-05435

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Clinton James, appellant.

(Ind. No. 81/13)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Sam Feldman of counsel), for appellant.

Michael E. McMahon, District Attorney, Staten Island, NY (Thomas B. Litsky and Timothy Pezzoli of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Richmond County (Wayne M. Ozzi, J.), rendered May 25, 2022, convicting him of criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The  defendant's  challenge  to  the  constitutionality  of  his  conviction  of  criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, in light of the decision in New York State Rifle &amp; Pistol Assn.,  Inc.  v  Bruen (597  US  1),  is  unpreserved  for  appellate  review,  since  he  did  not  raise  a constitutional challenge before the Supreme Court ( see People v Cabrera ,  41 NY3d 35, 41-51; People v Sargeant , 230 AD3d 1341, 1354-1355).  We decline to review the defendant's contention pursuant to our interest of justice jurisdiction.

The  defendant's  contention  that  the  Supreme  Court  violated  CPL  245.25(2)  by conditioning its plea offer on the defendant's waiver of further discovery is unpreserved for appellate review ( see id. ยง 470.05[2]), and we decline to review that contention in the interest of justice.

CONNOLLY, J.P., BRATHWAITE NELSON, LANDICINO and GOLIA, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph

Clerk of the Court

PEOPLE v JAMES, CLINTON