## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76744

C/sa

AD3d

Submitted - February 25, 2025

ROBERT J. MILLER, J.P. LINDA CHRISTOPHER CARL J. LANDICINO PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2023-05777

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Carlos Forero, appellant.

(Ind. No. 73814/22)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Robert C. Langdon of counsel), for appellant.

Melinda Katz, District Attorney, Kew Gardens, NY (Johnnette Traill and Nancy Fitzpatrick Talcott of counsel; Brendan Ransom on the brief), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Queens County (Toni M. Cimino, J.), rendered June 9, 2023, convicting him of criminal mischief in the fourth degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The  defendant's  contention  that  the  mandatory  surcharge  and  fees  imposed  at sentencing  ( see Penal  Law  §  60.35[1][a])  should  be  waived  pursuant  to  CPL  420.35(2-a)  is unpreserved for appellate  review ( see id. § 470.05[2]; People v Frazier , 211 AD3d 1033; People v Taylor , 209 AD3d 772, 773).  In any event, the defendant's contention is without merit.  CPL 420.35(2-a) authorizes a court, upon certain enumerated grounds ( see id. § 420.35[2-a][a]-[c]), to waive the otherwise 'mandatory' surcharge and fees imposed by statute (Penal Law § 60.35[a]; see generally People v Jones ,  26 NY3d 730, 733-737), where an individual was 'under the age of twenty-one  at  the  time  the  offense  was  committed'  (CPL  420.35[2-a]).    Here,  although  it  is undisputed that the defendant was under the age of 21 at the time the underlying offense was committed, the record does not also demonstrate that a waiver of the mandatory surcharge and fees was warranted under any of the grounds enumerated in the statute ( see id. § 420.35[2-a][a]-[c]; People v Attah , 203 AD3d 1063, 1064).  Under the circumstances, and in the absence of the People's

consent, we decline to waive the surcharge and fees imposed at sentencing in the interest of justice ( see People v Acevedo , 210 AD3d 1106, 1107; People v Attah , 203 AD3d at 1064).

MILLER, J.P., CHRISTOPHER, LANDICINO and HOM, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->