## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76863

C/sa

AD3d

Argued - March 7, 2025

COLLEEN D. DUFFY, J.P. ROBERT J. MILLER JANICE A. TAYLOR PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2018-05290

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Cheyenne Wright, appellant.

(Ind. No. 5394/16)

Patricia  Pazner,  New  York,  NY  (Cynthia  Colt  of  counsel),  for  appellant,  and appellant pro se.

Eric Gonzalez, District Attorney, Brooklyn, NY (Leonard Joblove, Avshalom Yotam, and David Cao of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Danny K. Chun, J.), rendered February 28, 2018, convicting her of murder in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, and reckless endangerment in the first degree, upon a jury verdict, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The defendant was convicted, upon a jury verdict, of murder in the second degree, criminal possession of a weapon in the second degree, and reckless endangerment in the first degree.

The defendant's contention that the evidence was legally insufficient to support her convictions of murder in the second degree (Penal Law ยง 125.25[2]) and reckless endangerment in the first degree ( id. ยง 120.25) is unpreserved for appellate review ( see CPL 470.05[2]; People v Hawkins , 11 NY3d 484, 492).  In any event, viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution ( see People v Contes ,  60 NY2d 620, 621), we find that it was legally sufficient to establish  the  defendant's guilt  beyond  a  reasonable doubt  of  murder in  the  second degree and reckless endangerment in the first degree ( see People v Danielson , 9 NY3d 342, 349).  The evidence

at trial demonstrated that the defendant acted with depraved indifference to human life when she shot indiscriminately at a crowd of people, including children ( see People v Feingold , 7 NY3d 288, 294; People  v  Nikc ,  52  AD3d  740,  740).    Moreover,  in  fulfilling  our  responsibility  to  conduct  an independent review of the weight of the evidence ( see CPL 470.15[5]; People v Danielson , 9 NY3d at 348), we nevertheless accord great deference to the jury's opportunity to view the witnesses, hear the testimony, and observe demeanor ( see People v Mateo , 2 NY3d 383, 410; People v Bleakley , 69 NY2d 490, 495).  Upon reviewing the record here, we are satisfied that the verdict of guilt as to murder in the second degree and reckless endangerment in the first degree was not against the weight of the evidence ( see People v Romero , 7 NY3d 633).

The defendant's contention  that  she  was  deprived  of  the  effective  assistance  of counsel is without merit.  The evidence, the law, and the circumstances of this case, viewed in totality and as of the time of the representation, reveal that the defendant's trial counsel provided meaningful representation ( see People v Benevento , 91 NY2d 708, 712; People v Baldi , 54 NY2d 137, 147), and the defendant was not deprived of the effective assistance of counsel under the United States Constitution ( see Strickland v Washington ,  466 US 668).  The defendant's trial counsel presented a reasonable defense, interposed appropriate objections, and effectively cross-examined the People's witnesses.  The defendant failed to demonstrate a lack of a strategic reason or other legitimate explanation for trial counsel's alleged shortcomings ( see People v Jeffriesel , 209 AD3d 1034, 1036; People v Salas , 208 AD3d 1368, 1369).  Moreover, the defendant's trial counsel was not ineffective for failing to advance arguments that had little or no chance of success under the circumstances ( see People v Ennis , 11 NY3d 403, 415; People v Jeffriesel , 209 AD3d at 1036).

The sentence imposed was not excessive ( see People v Suitte , 90 AD2d 80).

The  defendant's  remaining  contentions,  including  those  raised  in  her  pro  se supplemental brief, are without merit.

DUFFY, J.P., MILLER, TAYLOR and HOM, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->