## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76882

C/sa

AD3d

Submitted - March 12, 2025

MARK C. DILLON, J.P. BARRY E. WARHIT LOURDES M. VENTURA JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2022-08945

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Mark Taylor, appellant.

(Ind. No. 703/19)

Gary E. Eisenberg, New City, NY, for appellant.

David M. Hoovler, District Attorney, Goshen, NY (Winter A. Vega and Andrew R. Kass of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County (Robert J. Prisco, J., at plea; Craig S. Brown, J., at sentence), rendered February 8, 2022, convicting him of criminal sale of a controlled substance in the third degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The defendant's contention that his plea of guilty was not knowing, intelligent, and voluntary is unpreserved for appellate review, as he did not move to withdraw his plea or otherwise raise the issue before the County Court ( see People v Argueta , 233 AD3d 703, 703-704; People v Pray , 183 AD3d 842, 842).  In any event, the defendant's contention cannot be reviewed on direct appeal, as it is based on matter dehors the record ( see People v Walker , 189 AD3d 1619, 1619; People v Thomas , 150 AD3d 770, 771; People v Wornell , 112 AD3d 656).  The defendant's related contention  that  the  alleged  ineffective  assistance  of  counsel  rendered  his  plea  unknowing, unintelligent, and involuntary is also based on matter dehors the record and, thus, likewise is not reviewable on direct appeal ( see People v Chavis , 218 AD3d 1368, 1370; People v Wornell , 112 AD3d at 656).

Contrary to the defendant's contention, the record demonstrates that he knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waived his right to appeal ( see People v Thomas , 34 NY3d 545; People v Vantassell , 205 AD3d 739, 740).  The defendant's valid waiver of his right to appeal precludes appellate review of his contention that the sentence imposed was excessive ( see People v Lopez , 6 NY3d 248, 255-256).

DILLON, J.P., WARHIT, VENTURA and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->