## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76895

O/htr

AD3d

Submitted - March 13, 2025

ANGELA G. IANNACCI, J.P. PAUL WOOTEN DEBORAH A. DOWLING LAURENCE L. LOVE, JJ.

2023-07463 2023-07473

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Rafael A. Hernandez, appellant.

(Ind. Nos. 70718/22, 70305/23)

Margaret M. Walker, Poughkeepsie, NY (Seth J. Gallagher of counsel), for appellant.

Anthony P. Parisi, District Attorney, Poughkeepsie, NY (Jason Richland of counsel), for respondent.

Appeals by the defendant from two judgments of the County Court, Dutchess County (Jessica  Segal,  J.),  both  rendered  June  20,  2023,  convicting  him  of  criminal  possession  of  a controlled substance in the third degree under Indictment No. 70718/22, and criminal possession of a firearm under Superior Court Information No. 70305/23, upon his pleas of guilty, and imposing sentences.

ORDERED that the judgments are affirmed.

Contrary to the defendant's contention, the record demonstrates that he knowingly, voluntarily, and intelligently waived his right to appeal ( see People v Victor , \_\_\_\_\_ AD3d \_\_\_\_\_, 2025 NY Slip Op 00887; People v Young , 225 AD3d 903; People v Sutton , 184 AD3d 236, 245; see also People v Williams , 227 AD3d 480, 481).  The defendant's valid waiver of his right to appeal precludes appellate review of his contention that the sentences imposed were excessive ( see People v Lopez , 6 NY3d 248, 256).

IANNACCI, J.P., WOOTEN, DOWLING and LOVE, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->