## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

D76920 C/jr

AD3d

Submitted - March 14, 2025

LARA J. GENOVESI, J.P. CHERYL E. CHAMBERS JANICE A. TAYLOR PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2022-10526

DECISION &amp; ORDER

The People, etc., respondent, v Robert Lavaud, appellant.

(Ind. No. 8576/18)

Patricia Pazner, New York, NY (Russ Altman-Merino of counsel), for appellant.

Eric  Gonzalez,  District  Attorney,  Brooklyn,  NY  (Leonard  Joblove,  Morgan  J. Dennehy, and Isaac Rounseville of counsel), for respondent.

Appeal by the defendant from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County (Matthew J. D'Emic, J.), rendered December 6, 2022, convicting him of criminal mischief in the fourth degree, upon his plea of guilty, and imposing sentence.

ORDERED that the judgment is affirmed.

The  defendant's  contention  that  the  order  of  protection  issued  at  the  time  of sentencing should be vacated because the Supreme Court failed to state on the record the reasons for issuing it ( see CPL 530.13[4]) is unpreserved for appellate review, since the defendant failed to object to the order of protection at sentencing or otherwise raise the issue before the court ( see id. ยง 470.05[2]; People v Nieves , 2 NY3d 310, 316-317; People v Beaubrun , 234 AD3d 869, 869). Under the circumstances, we decline to exercise our interest of justice jurisdiction to review this contention ( see People v Villan , 234 AD3d 717, 717; People v Person , 233 AD3d 804, 804).  '[T]he better practice-and best use of judicial resources-is for a defendant seeking adjustment of [final orders of protection] to request relief from the issuing court in the first instance, resorting to the appellate courts only if necessary' ( People v Nieves , 2 NY3d at 317; see People v Person , 233 AD3d

at 804).

GENOVESI, J.P., CHAMBERS, TAYLOR and HOM, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->