## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

M302767

AFA/

ROBERT J. MILLER, J.P. DEBORAH A. DOWLING LILLIAN WAN DONNA-MARIE E. GOLIA, JJ.

2024-03335

The People, etc., respondent, v Tonya Best, appellant.

(Ind. Nos. 70357/2022, 126/2022)

On the Court's own motion, it is

ORDERED that the decision and order on motion of this Court dated January 22, 2025, in the above-entitled case is recalled and vacated, and the following decision and order on motion is substituted therefor:

Appeal from a judgment of the County Court, Orange County, rendered March 29, 2024.  Motion by assigned counsel to be relieved of the assignment to prosecute the appeal and for the assignment of new counsel.  Pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law ยง 380.55(2), the appellant was granted  waiver of costs, fees, and expenses, and by decision and order on motion dated July 3, 2024, the following named attorney was assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Christopher Brennar Sevier P.O. Box 75 Montgomery, NY 12549

Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and the papers file in relation thereto, it is

ORDERED that the motion is granted, and the former assigned counsel is directed to turn over all papers in the action to new counsel herein assigned; and it is further,

ORDERED that pursuant to County Law ยง 722 the following named attorney is assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

February 10, 2025

DECISION &amp; ORDER ON MOTION

Kenyon C. Trachte 1662 Route 300 Mailbox #12 Newburgh, NY 12550

and it is further,

ORDERED that upon service of a copy of this decision and order on motion upon it, the Department of Probation is hereby authorized and directed to provide assigned counsel with a copy of the presentence report prepared in connection with the appellant's sentencing, including the recommendation sheet and any prior reports on the appellant which are incorporated in or referred to in the report, and to provide additional copies to this Court upon demand; and it is further,

ORDERED that the appellant's time to perfect the appeal is extended; assigned counsel shall prosecute the appeal  expeditiously in accordance with this  Court's rules ( see 22 NYCRR 1250.9) and written directions; and it is further,

ORDERED that assigned counsel shall serve a copy of this decision and order on motion upon the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken.

MILLER, J.P., DOWLING, WAN and GOLIA, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph

Clerk of the Court

Appellant's Address: 24-G-0211 Taconic Correctional Facility 250 Harris Road Bedford Hills, NY 10507-2400

PEOPLE v BEST, TONYA