## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

LARA J. GENOVESI, J.P. DEBORAH A. DOWLING JANICE A. TAYLOR PHILLIP HOM, JJ.

2023-03885

The People, etc., respondent, v Santos J. Flores, appellant.

DECISION &amp; ORDER ON MOTION

(Ind. No. 71426/2021, 1199/2021)

Appeal from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County, rendered April 17, 2023.  Motion by assigned counsel to be relieved of the assignment to prosecute the appeal and for the assignment of new counsel.  The appellant was granted waiver of costs, fees, and expenses and was assigned counsel on August 21, 2024, pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law ยง 380.55(2), and the following named attorney was assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Laurette D. Mulry Legal Aid Society of Suffolk County 300 Center Drive, PO Box 1697 Riverhead, NY 11901-3398

Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and the papers filed in relation thereto, it is

ORDERED that the motion is granted, and the former assigned counsel is directed to turn over all papers in the action to new counsel herein assigned; and it is further,

ORDERED that pursuant to County Law ยง 722 the following named attorney is assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Charles Von Schmidt 9100 Republic Airport, Hanger Three Farmingdale, NY 11735

and it is further,

March 19, 2025

PEOPLE v FLORES, SANTOS J.

M303660

ID/

ORDERED that upon service of a copy of this decision and order on motion upon it, the Department of Probation is hereby authorized and directed to provide assigned counsel with a copy of the presentence report prepared in connection with the appellant's sentencing, including the recommendation sheet and any prior reports on the appellant which are incorporated in or referred to in the report, and to provide additional copies to this Court upon demand; and it is further,

ORDERED that the appellant's time to perfect the appeal is extended; assigned counsel shall prosecute the appeal expeditiously in accordance with this Court's rules ( see 22 NYCRR 1250.9) and written directions; and it is further,

ORDERED that assigned counsel shall serve a copy of this decision and order on motion upon the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken.

GENOVESI, J.P., DOWLING, TAYLOR and HOM, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->

Appellant's Address : 23-R-1065 Wallkill Correctional Facility 50 McKendrick Road, P.O. Box G Wallkill, NY 12589-0286