## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

M303584 ID/

VALERIE BRATHWAITE NELSON, J.P. LINDA CHRISTOPHER LILLIAN WAN DONNA-MARIE E. GOLIA, JJ.

2024-05653

The People, etc., respondent, v Ragene Powell, appellant.

DECISION &amp; ORDER ON MOTION

(Ind. No. 10308/2010)

Appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court, Kings County, rendered May 30, 2024.  Motion by assigned counsel to be relieved of the assignment to prosecute the appeal and for the assignment of new counsel.  The appellant was granted waiver of costs, fees, and expenses and was assigned counsel on August 9, 2024, pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law ยง 380.55(2), and the following named attorney was assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Twyla Carter The Legal Aid Society 199 Water Street - 5th Floor New York, NY 10038

Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and no papers having been filed in opposition or in relation thereto, it is

ORDERED that the motion is granted, and the former assigned counsel is directed to turn over all papers in the action to new counsel herein assigned; and it is further,

ORDERED that pursuant to County Law ยง 722 the following named attorney is assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Patricia Pazner Appellate Advocates 111 John Street - 9th Floor New York, New York 10038

and it is further,

ORDERED that upon service of a copy of this decision and order on motion upon it, the Department of Probation is hereby authorized and directed to provide assigned counsel with a copy of the presentence report prepared in connection with the appellant's sentencing, including the recommendation sheet and any prior reports on the appellant which are incorporated in or referred to in the report, and to provide additional copies to this Court upon demand; and it is further,

ORDERED that the appellant's time to perfect the appeal is extended; assigned counsel  shall  prosecute the  appeal expeditiously  in  accordance with  this  Court's  rules  ( see 22 NYCRR 1250.9) and written directions; and it is further,

ORDERED that assigned counsel shall serve a copy of this decision and order on motion upon the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken.

BRATHWAITE NELSON, J.P., CHRISTOPHER, WAN and GOLIA, JJ., concur.

ENTER:

<!-- image -->

Appellant's Address : 13-A-4141 Clinton Correctional Facility 1156 Rt. 374, P.O. Box 2001 Dannemora, NY 12929-2000