## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

M303902 ID/

LARA J. GENOVESI, J.P. ROBERT J. MILLER DEBORAH A. DOWLING JAMES P. MCCORMACK, JJ.

2023-05531

The People, etc., respondent, v Yonathan RamirezArgueta, appellant.

DECISION &amp; ORDER ON MOTION

(Ind. No. 71679/2022)

Appeal from a judgment of the County Court, Suffolk County, rendered March 22, 2023.  Motion by assigned counsel to be relieved of the assignment to prosecute the appeal and for the assignment of new counsel.  The appellant was granted waiver of costs, fees, and expenses and was assigned counsel on July 12, 2023, pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law ยง 380.55(2), and the following named attorney was assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Laurette D. Mulry Legal Aid Society of Suffolk County 300 Center Drive, PO Box 1697 Riverhead, NY 11901-3398

Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and the papers filed in relation thereto, it is

ORDERED that the motion is granted, and the former assigned counsel is directed to turn over all papers in the action to new counsel herein assigned; and it is further,

ORDERED that pursuant to County Law ยง 722 the following named attorney is assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Sabato Caponi 80 Orville Drive, Ste. 100 Bohemia, NY 11716

and it is further,

March 28, 2025

ORDERED that upon service of a copy of this decision and order on motion upon it, the Department of Probation is hereby authorized and directed to provide assigned counsel with a copy of the presentence report prepared in connection with the appellant's sentencing, including the recommendation sheet and any prior reports on the appellant which are incorporated in or referred to in the report, and to provide additional copies to this Court upon demand; and it is further,

ORDERED that the appellant's time to perfect the appeal is extended; assigned counsel shall prosecute the appeal expeditiously in accordance with this Court's rules ( see 22 NYCRR 1250.9) and written directions; and it is further,

ORDERED that assigned counsel shall serve a copy of this decision and order on motion upon the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken.

GENOVESI, J.P., MILLER, DOWLING and MCCORMACK, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph Clerk of the Court

Appellant's Address : 23-B-1494 Five Points Corr. Fac. Caller Box 119 Romulus, NY 14541