## Supreme Court of the State of New York Appellate Division: Second Judicial Department

M303558

ID/

HECTOR D. LASALLE, P.J. WILLIAM G. FORD HELEN VOUTSINAS CARL J. LANDICINO, JJ.

2024-07481

The People, etc., respondent, v Chet Dileo, appellant.

DECISION &amp; ORDER ON MOTION

(Ind. No. 71135/2021)

Appeal from a judgment of the County Court, Nassau County, rendered July 30, 2024. Motion by assigned counsel to be relieved of the assignment to prosecute the appeal and for the assignment of new counsel.  The appellant was granted waiver of costs, fees, and expenses and was assigned counsel on September 11, 2024, pursuant to Criminal Procedure Law ยง 380.55(2), and the following named attorney was assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Steven Feinman One North Broadway, Ste. 412 White Plains, NY 10601

Upon the papers filed in support of the motion and the papers filed in relation thereto, it is

ORDERED that the motion is granted, and the former assigned counsel is directed to turn over all papers in the action to new counsel herein assigned; and it is further,

ORDERED that pursuant to County Law ยง 722 the following named attorney is assigned as counsel to prosecute the appeal:

Martin Goldberg 672 Dogwood Ave. # 183 Franklin Square, NY 11010

and it is further,

ORDERED that upon service of a copy of this decision and order on motion upon it,

March 14, 2025

the Department of Probation is hereby authorized and directed to provide assigned counsel with a copy of the presentence report prepared in connection with the appellant's sentencing, including the recommendation sheet and any prior reports on the appellant which are incorporated in or referred to in the report, and to provide additional copies to this Court upon demand; and it is further,

ORDERED that the appellant's time to perfect the appeal is extended; assigned counsel shall prosecute the appeal  expeditiously in accordance with this  Court's rules ( see 22 NYCRR 1250.9) and written directions; and it is further,

ORDERED that assigned counsel shall serve a copy of this decision and order on motion upon the clerk of the court from which the appeal is taken.

LASALLE, P.J., FORD, VOUTSINAS and LANDICINO, JJ., concur.

<!-- image -->

ENTER:

Darrell M. Joseph

Clerk of the Court

Appellant's Address :

Nassau County Jail 100 Carmen Avenue East Meadow, NY 11554